So first things first,
let's build out these functions.
So the authenticated function, so if you
check out the comments right here, and
kind of like the description of
what I gave you, it says text if
the user is on the concepts object
continues to the next resolver if true.
And that's basically it.
So what we can do is we can say if
context.user or actually better yet,
we can say if not context.user, then what
we are gonna do is just throw an error.
And don't worry about errors right now on
GraphQL we're gonna get to that later but
you can just throw an error,
not authorized, like that.
If you are,
then we wanna return the next resolver.
And it's important that
you put return here,
because the resolver is
gonna return a value.
If you don't return it, it'll execute it
but the value will always be undefined
because if you don't return inside of
a function, it's always undefined.
So make sure you put that there.
And then we'll just copy all
of these arcs, like that.
There we go.
Pretty simple for that, and then as far as
the authorization, this one's pretty much
the same except for we're checking for
a role on an authenticated user.
So it checks that the user on
the context has the specified role,
continues to the next resolver if true.
So if not, context.user.role or
if context.user.role
does not equal the role
that was passed,
then were gonna throw an error.
Must be a whatever that role is,
There we go.
And if good, we'll just say next,
return that and
pass all these arguments like this.
Cool, everybody following me so far?
All right, simple enough.
Okay, so
now we're going to our resolvers and
we just need to wrap all
the stuff starting with me.
So with me cuz it's returning yourself
the user, and we get the user again
from the context object which is trading
a token, a possible token for user.
So this may be null,
it may be a user, we don't know.
And that's what the authentication
function helper is doing.
It's checking this user on the context
object to see if it exists or not.
That's the responsibility.
So we wanna do that for
everything that involves a user.
So in our case, me so
we can say authenticated here,
convert this to arrow function like so.
And now we have me.
So to check this out,
if I go and start a server,
Go back to Playground.
I think I already have a JWT in
here that should still be good.
So if I get rid of this JWT, and
I try to execute this I'll just get
an arrow saying not authorized.
So that's good.
If I add the JWT back,
I should, I guess I did.
It's not good anymore, I'll sign up,
let's sign up for one right here.
So that's the variables in here, so cool.
So let me sign up, get this token.
Go back, replace this token with this one,
like that.
And now if I do it, I get back me and
get the email all that stuff.
All of it just works, right?
Pretty cool, so
you did the same thing for posts.
So we come here and
we say authenticated arrow function.
We do the same thing for this one post.
Wanna get all of them in here,
userSettings using user.id so
we'll do that too.
Make sure you're not getting someone
else's settings and just yours.
Feed is public, so we won't wrap that.
Update your settings for sure,
you got to be authenticated,
update your own settings.
To create a post, yep, we only want
authorized users creating posts on
our little network that we have,
our authenticated users.
Update yourself,
definitely got to be authenticated.
Invite, so this is a special one.
So invite is not only do you
need to be authenticated,
you need to be authorized to do this.
So in order to do this,
we need to do a couple things.
One, we'll look at the auth sure,
you could have come in authorize and
also check to see if context.user exists
and then you can just have one function.
But I like to keep each function
responsible for its own job.
So this is not the job to check
to see if the user exists,
although it will error if it doesn't.
It's the job to check to see if
the role in the user is correct.
So that means we need to first check to
see if you're authenticated like this.
And then we need to also check to
see if you're authorized like this.
And authorize, this takes in one argument.
In this case,
it's gonna be the admin like that.
Now you have to be an admin
to be able to invite.
So if you wanted to try that out,
I believe my user is a,
it's a member, so
I have that one member I'll make.
Let's see, member, Of course,
now I have a member one, I'll grab that
and then I'll try to do an invite.
So if I said I'm just gonna
do a shorthand mutation here,
invite, take some inputs,
what does that say?
I got email.
I think it also takes a role maybe, yeah.
I'll just put, invite a member here.
Try to get this back and
at my headers for authorization,
With the member JWT, and
if I try execute this, must be an admin.
If I go back and grab my app JWT that
I have here and try to do invite,
We get it, it works.
So super clean, very simple,
just makes sense.
And then for sign up and sign in,
we definitely don't wanna lock those down
because no one would ever be
able to sign up and sign in.
So don't ever do that.
And then we have these
few level resolvers.
So because these few level resolvers
are resolved after types which are usually
resolved on the query level,
we don't necessarily have to
authenticate these fields.
Although there may be different scenarios
where you can like for instance,
I'm not exactly doing
an authentication here.
But I am checking to
make sure that the posts
on the user that you're trying to get,
that belongs to you.
So this will prevent you from
looking at any others user's post.
And that's because the way that this
graph works is you might be able to go
look at another user object
through the post type.
So if I were to go look at a post,
a post has an author field on it,
which is a user type, that user who
created that post might not be you.
And if I don't catch this,
you might find a way to look at some other
user's post through the connection of,
you might find another way to look at
another user's post through a post.
So it's very complicated but this is not,
technically authentication is more like
locking down information that isn't yours.
It's like a multi-tenet thing.
So we're not doing authentication or
anything like that but
you could do authorization.
I guess, you can think of this
as some sort of authorization.
It's not so much of a role but
are you the user of these posts?
So you could use your
authorization helper here.
So let's say there was a field on
settings that had payment info,
had a payment or a subscription info or
something like that.
And you don't wanna show that to
every person in your organization.
So you will lock that down to only admins
can look at, the subscription info and
a payment last four and stuff like that.
So you could lock it
down on that field level,
that most of the time authentication is
gonna happen on the query mutation level.
>> Is there any advantage
to using the method
an exercise over using schema directives?
>> Man, that's such a good question.
So we're gonna get the schema
directives later today,
and you'll have the opportunity to
make authentication directives.
And the advantage is,
you don't have to rewrite this,
you won't have to wrap every
single resolver every single time.
You can write one directive and
it'll wrap any resolver you want it
to without having to repeat yourself.
So your code will be a lot cleaner.
But the actual implementation is
90% the same of what you just did.
You just have to write some code
to tell GraphQL to how to do it.
So obviously, the other benefit is
that you just have less code, and
it's easier to modify.
And it just looks cleaner honestly.
>> Is it possible to do a data
validation using this method that is
using the authentication?
>> Yeah, you can do data validation.
So I'm guessing what they're
describing is some input arguments.
And you wanna validate that those inputs
are what they are outside of what's
capable what GraphQL input types which
are checking just to see if something is
a string or something is a integer.
But you wanna check to see if something
is greater than this or less than that.
Yes, that's a really
good approach to do that.
You could definitely wrap your
resolvers to check for those inputs.
If you could just think of that process
of what we did is basically like creating
middleware for your resolvers and applying
that middleware to any resolver you want.
So inside of that context, sure,
you can do whatever you want and
checking inputs for different values and
stuff like that, it's a great place.